#   Copyright
#
#	Copyright (C) 2021 Jari Aalto
#
#   License
#
#       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#       it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#       the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#       (at your option) any later version.
#
#       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#       but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
#       GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#       along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
#   Description
#
#	To learn what TOP LEVEL sections to use in manual pages,
#	see POSIX/Susv standard and "Utility Description Defaults" at
#	http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/xcu_chap01.html#tag_01_11
#
#	This manual page in Perl POD format. Read more at
#	http://perldoc.perl.org/perlpod.html or run command:
#
#	    perldoc perlpod
#
#	To check the syntax:
#
#	    podchecker *.pod
#
#	To create manual:
#
#	    pod2man FILE.N.pod > FILE.N

=pod

=head1 NAME

ddnd-updater - Update DOMAIN and IP at dynu.net Dynamic DNS service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ddns-updater-dynu [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Program updates DOMAIN and IP address to http://dynu.com
To use a DDNS service provider, create and account and add dyamic dns domains.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a, --apikey KEY>

The API-Key from
https://www.dynu.com/ControlPanel/APICredentials

=item B<-c, --confdir CONFDIR>

Location of *.conf files. If given, no other optiona than
--test and --verbose are used. Typical locations are
C<~/.config/ddns-updater-dynu> and C</etc/ddns-updater-dynu>.

=item B<-d, --domain>

Required. Domain like example.dynuddns.net in your dynu.com account.

=item B<--g, --getip HOST>

Optinal. Host to get ip. Must return single IP address and nothing
else. Defaul is ifconfig.co

=item B<-i, --id HOSTID>

Required. The ID of the dynamic host. See B<--query>.

=item B<-I, --ip IP>

Optional. The IP address. If not given, call network.
See option C<--getip>.

=item B<-Q, --query>

Query hostlist. From this you can find out the HOSTID.
Display and exit.

=item B<-t, --test>

Test. Run no commands.

=item B<-T, --ttl SECONDS>

Time to live in seconds. Default is 120.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Display verbose messages.

=item B<-V, --Verson>

Display version information and exit.

=item B<-h, --help>

Display short help and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Show all dynamic hosts. From here you can pick the HOSTID values.

    ddns-updater-dynu --apikey KEY --query

Update IP address for DOMAIN:

     ddns-updater-dynu --apikey KEY --id HOSTID --domain DOMAIN

=head1 BUGS

The program does not use non-POSIX featues like getopt(1) to parse
options. Due to lack of proper programing language constructs in POSIX
shell, combining short options in form of B<-vf> is not supported. Use
separate options like in B<-f> B<-i>.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

POSIX

=head1 FILES

=head2 CONFIGURATION FILES

There are no default configuration file location. for option
B<--confdir DIR> the suggested standard locations are

  $HOME/.config/ddns-updater-dynu
  /etc/ddns-updater-dynu

The configuration file requirements are:

  - Must use *.conf extension.
  - Written in POSIX shell.
  - Must define following variables:

    # If empty or does not exist, the configuration is not used
    ENABLE=yes
    APIKEY=
    ID=
    DOMAIN=

B<Tip>: name the configuration files
according to domain names like I<host.dynuddns.net.conf>.

=head1 STANDARDS

None.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

https://github.com/jaalto/project--ddns-updater-dynu

=head1 SEE ALSO

ddclient(1)
ddns-updater(1)

=head1 AUTHORS

Program was written by <jari.aalto@cante.net>

Released under license GNU GPL version 2 or (at your option) any
later version. For more information about license, visit
<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
